The Early English Text Society, present, past and future

Anyone who reads Old and Middle English literary texts will be familiar with the mid-brown volumes of the EETS, with the symbol of Alfred's jewel embossed on the front cover. Most of the works attributed to King Alfred or to Aelfric, along with some of those by bishop Wulfstan and much anonymous prose and verse from the pre-Conquest period, are to be found within the Society's three series; all of the surviving medieval drama, most of the Middle English romances, much religious and secular prose and verse including the English works of John Gower, Thomas Hoccleve and most of Caxton's prints all find their place in the publications. Without EETS editions, study of medieval English texts would hardly be possible.

As its name states, EETS was begun as a 'club', and it retains certain features of that even now. It has no physical location, or even office, no paid staff or editors, but books in the Original Series are published in the first place to satisfy subscriptions paid by individuals or institutions. This means that there is need for a regular sequence of new editions, normally one or two per year; achieving that sequence can pose problems for the Editorial Secretary, who may have too few or too many texts ready for publication at any one time. Details on a separate sheet explain how individual (but not institutional) members can choose to take certain back volumes in place of the newly published volumes against their subscriptions. On the same sheet are given details about the very advantageous discount available to individual members on all back numbers. In 1970 a Supplementary Series was begun, a series which only appears occasionally (it currently has 24 volumes within it); some of these are new editions of texts earlier appearing in the main series. Again these volumes are available at publication and later at a substantial discount to members. All these advantages can only be obtained through the Membership Secretary (the books are sent by post); they are not available through bookshops, and such bookstores as carry EETS books have only a very limited selection of the many published.

Editors, who receive no royalties or expenses and who are only very rarely commissioned by the Society, are encouraged to approach the Editorial Secretary with a detailed proposal of the text they wish to suggest to the Society early in their work; interest may be expressed at that point, but before any text is accepted for publication the final typescript must be approved by the Council (a body of some twenty scholars), and then assigned a place in the printing schedule. The Society now has a stylesheet to guide editors in the layout and conventions acceptable within its series. No prescriptive set of editorial principles is laid down, but it is usually expected that the evidence of all relevant medieval copies of the text(s) in question will have been considered, and that the texts edited will be complete whatever their length. Editions are directed at a scholarly readership rather than a popular one; though they normally provide a glossary and notes, no translation is provided.

EETS was founded in 1864 by Frederick James Furnivall, with the help of Richard Morris, Walter Skeat, and others, to bring the mass of unprinted Early English literature within the reach of students. It was also intended to provide accurate texts from which the New (later Oxford) English Dictionary could quote; the ongoing work on the revision of that Dictionary is still heavily dependent on the Society's editions, as are the Middle English Dictionary and the Toronto Dictionary of Old English. In 1867 an Extra Series was started, intended to contain texts already printed but not in satisfactory or readily obtainable editions; this series was discontinued in 1921, and from then on all the Society's editions, apart from the handful in the Supplementary Series described above, were listed and numbered as part of the Original Series. In all the Society has now published some 475 volumes; all except for a very small number (mostly of editions superseded within the series) are available in print. The early history of the Society is only traceable in outline: no details about nineteenth-century membership are available, and the secretarial records of the early twentieth century were largely lost during the second world war. By the 1950s a very large number of the Society's editions were out of print, and finances allowed for only a very limited reprinting programme. Around 1970 an advantageous arrangement was agreed with an American reprint firm to make almost all the volumes available once more whilst maintaining the membership discounts. Though this arrangement was superseded towards the end of the twentieth century and the cost of reprinting has reverted to the Society, as a result of the effort then it has proved possible to keep the bulk of the list in print.

Many comparable societies, with different areas of interest, were founded in the nineteenth century (several of them also by Furnivall); not all have survived, and few have produced as many valuable volumes as EETS. The Society's success continues to depend very heavily on the loyalty of members, and especially on the energy and devotion of a series of scholars who have been involved with the administration of the Society - the amount of time and effort spent by those who over the years have filled the role of Editorial Secretary is immeasurable. Plans for publications for the coming years are well in hand: there are a number of important texts which should be published within the next five years. At present, notably because of the efforts of a series of Executive and Membership Secretaries, the Society's finances are in reasonable shape; but certain trends give concern to the Council. The Society's continuance is dependent on two factors: the first is obviously the supply of scholarly editions suitable to be included in its series; the second is on the maintenance of subscriptions and sales of volumes at a level which will cover the printing and distribution costs of the new and reprinted books. The normal copyright laws cover the Society's volumes. All enquiries about large scale reproduction, whether by photocopying or on the internet, should be directed to the Executive Secretary in the first instance. The Society's continued usefulness depends on its editors and on its ability to maintain its (re)printing programme - and that depends on those who traditionally have become members of the Society. We hope you will maintain your membership, and will encourage both the libraries you use and also other individuals to join. Membership conveys many benefits for you, and for the wider academic community concerned for the understanding of medieval texts.

Anne Hudson, Honorary Director 2006-13

Washington (CNN)US intelligence has identified the go-betweens the Russians used to provide stolen emails to WikiLeaks, according to US officials familiar with the classified intelligence report that was presented to President Barack Obama on Thursday.

In a Fox News interview earlier this week, WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange denied that Russia was the source of leaked Democratic emails that roiled the 2016 election to the detriment of President-elect Donald Trump's rival, Democrat Hillary Clinton.
Meanwhile, US intelligence has received new information following the election that gave agencies increased confidence that Russia carried out the hack and did so, in part, to help Trump win.
Included in that new information were intercepted conversations of Russian officials expressing happiness at Trump's win. Another official described some of the messages as congratulatory.

Officials said this was just one of multiple indicators to give them high confidence of both Russian involvement and Russian intentions. Officials reiterated that there is no single intercepted communication that qualifies as a "smoking gun" on Russia's intention to benefit Trump's candidacy or to claim credit for doing so.
Related: WikiLeaks' Assange: Russia didn't give us emails
Vice President Joe Biden said in an interview with PBS NewsHour that an unclassified version of an intel report provided to him will be released "very shortly" and will "lay out in bold print what" the US knows about the hacking.
"I think it will probably confirm what a lot of the American people think," he said, adding that it would "state clearly" the Russians involvement in the hacking.
In response to the interview, Trump tweeted on Wednesday, "Julian Assange said "a 14 year old could have hacked Podesta" - why was DNC so careless? Also said Russians did not give him

Trump has been publicly skeptical of Russia's involvement in the hacking, as well as has been publicly deriding the US intelligence community for its unanimous conclusion that Russia hacked Democratic Party groups and individuals to interfere in the US presidential election.
Officials told CNN there's been a disconnect between Trump's remarks about the intelligence community and his behind-the-scenes behavior when he's present at private intel briefings.
CNN's Daniella Diaz contributed to this report.

Washington (CNN)US intelligence has identified the go-betweens the Russians used to provide stolen emails to WikiLeaks, according to US officials familiar with the classified intelligence report that was presented to President Barack Obama on Thursday.

In a Fox News interview earlier this week, WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange denied that Russia was the source of leaked Democratic emails that roiled the 2016 election to the detriment of President-elect Donald Trump's rival, Democrat Hillary Clinton.
Meanwhile, US intelligence has received new information following the election that gave agencies increased confidence that Russia carried out the hack and did so, in part, to help Trump win.
Included in that new information were intercepted conversations of Russian officials expressing happiness at Trump's win. Another official described some of the messages as congratulatory.

Officials said this was just one of multiple indicators to give them high confidence of both Russian involvement and Russian intentions. Officials reiterated that there is no single intercepted communication that qualifies as a "smoking gun" on Russia's intention to benefit Trump's candidacy or to claim credit for doing so.
Related: WikiLeaks' Assange: Russia didn't give us emails
Vice President Joe Biden said in an interview with PBS NewsHour that an unclassified version of an intel report provided to him will be released "very shortly" and will "lay out in bold print what" the US knows about the hacking.
"I think it will probably confirm what a lot of the American people think," he said, adding that it would "state clearly" the Russians involvement in the hacking.
In response to the interview, Trump tweeted on Wednesday, "Julian Assange said "a 14 year old could have hacked Podesta" - why was DNC so careless? Also said Russians did not give him the info!"

Trump has been publicly skeptical of Russia's involvement in the hacking, as well as has been publicly deriding the US intelligence community for its unanimous conclusion that Russia hacked Democratic Party groups and individuals to interfere in the US presidential election.
Officials told CNN there's been a disconnect between Trump's remarks about the intelligence community and his behind-the-scenes behavior when he's present at private intel briefings.
CNN's Daniella Diaz contributed to this report.

Qinglong, China (CNN)From a distance, the sharp bends look dizzying.

With 24 switchbacks -- count them -- the spectacular road twists and turns for two and a half miles up a remote mountainside in southwestern China
No longer in active use save for a handful of tourists and the occasional local on a motorbike, today the road stands quiet.
But it once must have felt like a hair-pinned super highway.
During World War II, convoys of fully loaded US GMC military trucks snaked up the road transporting 15,000 tons of supplies each month to China's wartime capital Chongqing.
In the opposite direction, it carried people fleeing Japanese troops.
A black-and-white picture of the road appeared in US magazines like Life and it has since come to symbolize Chinese and US cooperation against Japanese occupation -- an often forgotten chapter of that era.

'Lost'
But, after the end of the war and the Communist victory in China, the location of the road in the striking picture was lost to historians for decades.
A new road with fewer switchbacks opened in 1954 displacing the corkscrew route from the few maps that existed.
Many thought it was in northern Myanmar or the neighboring province of Yunnan -- part of the wartime Burma Road that brought supplies from India to China as Japanese troops controlled the eastern seaboard.
In China, it's known as the Stillwell Road after the US General Joseph Stillwell.
Ge Shuya, a Chinese historian based in Yunnan, located the road near the town of Qinglong in 1995.
Of course, it's remained a useful shortcut for locals like Yang Xuekun, a 75-year-old farmer whose simple, one-story home lies near the top.
Yang said the road was almost washed away by heavy rain in the 1970s but it was rebuilt. He still uses it to head out into the mountains and collect food for his pigs.

Farmer Yang Xuekun still uses the road to head into the mountains.
Buckle up
Driving the single-track road isn't as perilous as it looks from afar.
It climbs 1,150 feet (350 meters) in 2.5 miles (4 kilometers), meaning the ascent feels fairly gentle for a modern vehicle.
Each bend is anchored by a numbered way marker.

Each of the road's 24 bends are numbered.
For the heavy wartime trucks and their passengers, however, it was still a risky journey -- especially treacherous during the wet summer months.
Lin Kongxun, a former interpreter with the US 1880 engineer battalion that was stationed along the road, said traversing it was so dangerous many trucks overturned.
"Whenever the US drivers got onto the road, they prayed to God," he told the People's Daily newspaper in 2002.
At the top of the graveled road -- authorities want to keep it in its original state -- is a military cemetery that offers a stunning view of the surrounding mountains and gorges

A new road with fewer switchbacks, seen here in the mountain mist, opened in 1954.
Beyond that is Qinglong, a scrappy town that was known in wartime as Annan. The city is keen to pull in tourists curious about the road and its unique history.
For now, anyone can drive or walk up and down the road. However, if you want the famous shot of the switchbacks from afar you have to buy a 60 yuan ($9) entrance ticket to access a viewing point.
For the fee, you get a short if slightly hokey ride on a open-top mini bus painted military green and drivers dressed in mock combat fatigues.
A visitor center was still under construction when I made the trip. Outside, stood a statue of a US soldier lighting the cigarette of a Chinese peasant -- a tribute to another famous wartime photo.
The view from the mountain top is jaw dropping and it's hard to imagine the fabled road being forgotten again.

Hong Kong (CNN)It's a frightening prospect, India and China going to war.

The countries are home to 2.5 billion people, a long and sometimes disputed border -- which they've fought wars over -- and each have nuclear weapons.
And India announced last month it successfully tested the Agni-V intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), which could theoretically deliver a nuke to Beijing.
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted the accomplishment "makes every Indian proud."

But some in China see the test as a provocation. And provocations can make the region less stable, which can lead to hostilities, says Victor Gao, the director of the China National Association of International Studies.
"To contemplate a war, especially involving involving nuclear weapons, against each other is completely ludicrous," Gao told CNN. "And it's a misallocation of resources."
Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for China's Foreign Ministry, responded to a question about the missile launch by noting UN Security Council regulations regarding nuclear capable ballistic missiles and stressing that the two countries "are not rivals for competition but partners for cooperation."

An Indian Foreign Ministry spokesman responded by telling CNN that its "strategic capabilities are not targeted against any particular country," and that the country abides by its international obligations.
But not everyone shares such a sanguine view of the Sino-Indian relationship.
"Everyone should be interested in and concerned about India's successful ICBM test, inc(luding) China because it's within range of this new missile and because it especially of the major Asian countries understands the dangers of nationalism and its volatility," says Yvonne Chiu, a professor of at Hong Kong University.

